README.md, before:

# Typst packages

A monorepo of my packages, in the beginning for sure mostly unpublished. Search the official [packages](https://typst.app/docs/packages/) page to find out if something has been published.

This repo contains a few package authoring facilities which are heavily inspired by and based on those of [CeTZ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf/cetz). There is a [package template](./template) utilizing these (based on the [example package](https://github.com/typst/packages/tree/main/packages/preview/example)), and this README will eventually document the most important aspects. Even more fundamental package authoring concepts are documented in the [official Typst package repo](https://github.com/typst/packages).

CeTZ resources (`Justfile` and `scripts/*`) are licensed under the Apache License 2.0, the rest under the MIT license. Packages contain their own licenses. Feel free to clone this repo or its contents to start your own typst package monorepo. You will want to pretty much immediately change the template's author and repository metadata.

## Package structure

Required for all packages in general are

- `typst.toml`: package metadata
- `README.md`
- `LICENSE`
- (some entry point typst file)

The packaging tool is a little more opinionated and requires

- `src/`: containing the entry point and other typst files
- `docs/`: containing the documentation, particularly `manual.typ` (using [`tidy`](https://github.com/Mc-Zen/tidy))
- `gallery/`: for examples (that can at the same time serve as manual tests)

Note that even docs and the gallery are _required_.

When creating a new package by copying the template, at least the following should be checked/adapted:

- `typst.toml`:
	- change the package name and description
	- change the path in the repository URL
	- add keywords
- `typst.toml`, `LICENSE`: check if the license suits your needs
- `README.md`: change the title, add description
- `docs/manual.typ`:
	- change the title, abstract, and introduction
	- in the lines `#let scope = (template: lib)` and `label-prefix: "template.",` replace `template` with your package's name. These define how you can use the module in documentation comments and reference functions in the manual.

## Building packages

You will need bash and [just](https://just.systems/man/en/).

First, generate the manual and gallery PDFs:

```
just manual template
just gallery template
```

(Replace `template` by the directory name of the package you're building.)

You can install your package locally to use it or perform some final tests:

```
just install template
```

Finally pack it up for publishing, e.g. into a directory named `dist`:

```
just package template dist
```

Commit message:

add just install-preview command, improve README regarding releasing

README.md, after:

# Typst packages

A monorepo of my packages, in the beginning for sure mostly unpublished. Search the official [packages](https://typst.app/docs/packages/) page to find out if something has been published.

This repo contains a few package authoring facilities which are heavily inspired by and based on those of [CeTZ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf/cetz). There is a [package template](./template) utilizing these (based on the [example package](https://github.com/typst/packages/tree/main/packages/preview/example)), and this README will eventually document the most important aspects. Even more fundamental package authoring concepts are documented in the [official Typst package repo](https://github.com/typst/packages).

CeTZ resources (`Justfile` and `scripts/*`) are licensed under the Apache License 2.0, the rest under the MIT license. Packages contain their own licenses. Feel free to clone this repo or its contents to start your own typst package monorepo. You will want to pretty much immediately change the template's author and repository metadata.

## Package structure

Required for all packages in general are

- `typst.toml`: package metadata
- `README.md`
- `LICENSE`
- (some entry point typst file)

The packaging tool is a little more opinionated and requires

- `src/`: containing the entry point and other typst files
- `docs/`: containing the documentation, particularly `manual.typ` (using [`tidy`](https://github.com/Mc-Zen/tidy))
- `gallery/`: for examples (that can at the same time serve as manual tests)

Note that even docs and the gallery are _required_.

When creating a new package by copying the template, at least the following should be checked/adapted:

- `typst.toml`:
	- change the package name and description
	- change the path in the repository URL
	- add keywords
- `typst.toml`, `LICENSE`: check if the license suits your needs
- `README.md`: change the title, add description
- `docs/manual.typ`:
	- change the title, abstract, and introduction
	- in the lines `#let scope = (template: lib)` and `label-prefix: "template.",` replace `template` with your package's name. These define how you can use the module in documentation comments and reference functions in the manual.

## Building packages

You will need bash and [just](https://just.systems/man/en/).

First, generate the manual and gallery PDFs:

```
just manual template
just gallery template
```

(Replace `template` by the directory name of the package you're building.)

You can install your package locally to use it or perform some final tests:

```
just install template
just install-preview template
```

If you use `install`, the package can be imported as `@local/<package>:<version>`; when using `install-preview`, it can be imported as `@preview/<package>:<version>` instead: **Note** that even after publishing, the version so installed takes precedence over the published version. **TODO** provide a script to uninstall preview packages.

Finally pack it up for publishing, e.g. into a local clone of the typst package registry:

```
just package template ../typst-package-registry/packages/preview
```

... and then create a pull request!
